new document about pci scans. first draft (#10986)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/fundamentals/basic-tasks/pci-scans.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Scan for PCI compliance
meta:
  title: Scan for PCI compliance
---

# Scan server for PCI compliance

> {{<Aside>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}
```

> Cloudflare is PCI certified as a Data Processor. See [PCI compliance and Cloudflare SSL/TLS – Cloudflare Help Center](https://developers.cloudflare.com/support/ssl-tls/edge-certificates-ssl-tls-configuration/pci-compliance-and-cloudflare-ssltls/) and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare is PCI certified as a Data Processor. Refer to [PCI compliance and Cloudflare SSL/TLS](https://developers.cloudflare.com/support/ssl-tls/edge-certificates-ssl-tls-configuration/pci-compliance-and-cloudflare-ssltls/) and 
```

> [BDES-1265_Privacy_Compliance_Whitepapers_PCI_V2.pdf](https://cf-assets.www.cloudflare.com/slt3lc6tev37/2ZT8AvN9cm7k4CMK0GyZqq/d972fa21275bcf9142e0eb2e8b44e43a/BDES-1265_Privacy_Compliance_Whitepapers_PCI_V2.pdf) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PCI DSS at Cloudflare (PDF)](https://cf-assets.www.cloudflare.com/slt3lc6tev37/2ZT8AvN9cm7k4CMK0GyZqq/d972fa21275bcf9142e0eb2e8b44e43a/BDES-1265_Privacy_Compliance_Whitepapers_PCI_V2.pdf) for more information.
```

{{</Aside>}}

PCI scanners are tools used to identify security weaknesses. When a business undergoes a compliance audit, PCI scan results are used for compliance verification.

> ## Initiate a scan
> 
> Start by identifying which server your scan should target. Are you scanning against your origin server, where your applications are hosted, or at a proxy server sitting in front of your origin, such as Cloudflare?
> 
> ## Open ports versus blocked traffic
> 
> There is a difference between open ports and blocked traffic. Due to the nature of how Cloudflare’s Anycast network works, ports other than 80 and 443 are always open so that Cloudflare can serve traffic for other customers on these ports. However, customers can easily block all unwanted traffic to these ports by using Cloudflare [WAF Managed Rules](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/get-started/reference/network-ports/#how-to-block-traffic-on-additional-ports) or [custom rules](/waf/custom-rules/). The PCI scan will show the ports being open, but the traffic would not reach your origin server. This is an often misunderstood concern.
> 
> By entering a public website URL, the scanner will resolve the hostname and scan the resulting the IP address. If your intention is to scan your origin server, be sure to enter your origins IP or a hostname that resolves to the origin IP, not a proxy server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initiate a scan

1. Identify which server your scan should target. Are you scanning against your origin server, where your applications are hosted, or at a proxy server sitting in front of your origin, such as Cloudflare?

2. On your scanner tool, enter a public URL or an IP address. If you enter a public website URL, the scanner will resolve the hostname and scan the resulting the IP address. To scan your origin server, be sure to enter your origin server's IP address or a hostname that resolves to the origin server's IP, not a proxy server.

3. Start the scan and analyze the results. 

4. (Optional) Run another scan for a different origin server.

### Open ports versus blocked traffic

There is a difference between open ports and blocked traffic. Due to the nature of how Cloudflare’s Anycast network works, ports other than 80 and 443 are always open so that Cloudflare can serve traffic for other customers on these ports. However, customers can easily block all unwanted traffic to these ports by using Cloudflare [WAF Managed Rules](/fundamentals/get-started/reference/network-ports/#how-to-block-traffic-on-additional-ports) or [custom rules](/waf/custom-rules/). The PCI scan will show the ports being open, but the traffic would not reach your origin server. This is an often misunderstood concern.
```

## Additional resources

> You can find all our public compliance resources here: [Certifications and Compliance Resources](https://www.cloudflare.com/trust-hub/compliance-resources/) and [Access Compliance Documentation](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/4412661740941-Access-Compliance-Documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all our public compliance resources in the following pages:
- [Certifications and compliance resources](https://www.cloudflare.com/trust-hub/compliance-resources/)
- [Compliance documentation](/fundamentals/reference/policies-compliances/compliance-docs/)
```

> If you have a Pro, Business or Enterprise plan, you can access Compliance documents in the Cloudflare Dashboard by selecting your account where you are a Super Administrator and then navigating to **Support** > **Compliance Documents**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a Pro, Business, or Enterprise plan, you can access Compliance documents in the Cloudflare dashboard by selecting your account where you are a Super Administrator and then navigating to **Support** > **Compliance Documents**.
```

---
pcx_content_type: how-to

> title: PCI Scans
> meta:
>   title: PCI Scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Scan for PCI compliance
meta:
  title: Scan for PCI compliance
```

---

> # Overview 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Scan server for PCI compliance
```
I believe we should start with a verb.

PCI scanners are tools used to identify security weaknesses. When a business undergoes a compliance audit, the output of a PCI scan is used to help prove compliance. 

> ## Initiating a scan

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Initiate a scan
```

It's important to know which server your scan is targetting. Is it your origin server, where your applications are hosted, or is it a proxy server sitting in front of your origin (for example, Cloudflare)? This can be easily determined. 

> When initiating the scan, if you enter a public website URL, the scanner will target the IP address that DNS resolves to. However, if you enter an IP address directly, you will already known exactly which server is being scanned. See [link](/link) for details about how to query DNS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initiate a scan, enter a start URL in your compliance checking tool.

If you enter a public website URL, the scanner will target the IP address that DNS resolves to. However, if you enter an IP address directly, you will already known exactly which server is being scanned. See [link](/link) for details about how to query DNS.
```
I'd make it more actionable.

## Open ports versus blocked traffic

> As stated in the overview, if you scan against the public website URL, DNS will resolve the hostname and if the resulting IP resolves to Cloudflare, the scan will evaluate Cloudflare, not your origin server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you scan against the public website URL, DNS will resolve the hostname and if the resulting IP resolves to Cloudflare, the scan will evaluate Cloudflare, not your origin server.
```

A common issue customers encounter while reviewing the results of a PCI scan for a website being proxied through Cloudflare is that the results will show open ports, which gives the impression of existing security vulnerabilities. However, this is an expected output when running a scan against Cloudflare proxied properties. 

> There is a difference between open ports and blocked traffic. Due to the nature of how Cloudflare’s Anycast network works, ports other than 80 and 443 are always open so that Cloudflare can serve traffic for other customers on these ports. However, customers can easily block all unwanted traffic to these ports by using the Cloudflare WAF managed rules or the new Cloudflare Firewall Rules(). The PCI scan will show the ports being open, but the traffic will not reach your origin server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a difference between open ports and blocked traffic. Due to the nature of how Cloudflare’s Anycast network works, ports other than 80 and 443 are always open so that Cloudflare can serve traffic for other customers on these ports. However, customers can easily block all unwanted traffic to these ports by using Cloudflare [WAF Managed Rules](/waf/managed-rules/) or [custom rules](/waf/custom-rules/). The PCI scan will show the ports being open, but the traffic will not reach your origin server. 
```

> ## Additional resources

Reviewer: This section is a bit scattered (not sure if it's ready for review). We should limit the different types of information (different lists) to 2 lists so that it's not too much information.
